Add docs for new istioctl and operator change (#7791)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/setup/install/standalone-operator/index.md

Refer to the [`IstioOperator` API](/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#IstioOperatorSpec)
for the complete set of configuration settings.

## Canary Upgrade
You can use operator to do canary upgrade of Istio control plane, similar to what istioctl does, refer to [upgrade guide]((/docs/setup/upgrade/#canary-upgrades))

> For example, if you have already installed Istio following the previous step, check existence of in cluster `IstioOperator` CR:

Reviewer: spell out CR

Author: done

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get iop --all-namespaces
NAMESPACE      NAME                        REVISION   STATUS    AGE
istio-system   example-istiocontrolplane              HEALTHY   11m
{{< /text >}}

Then run the following command with corresponding version of istioctl to install Istio of new revision based on the in cluster `IstioOperator` CR:
{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl operator init --revision canary
{{< /text >}}

After running the command, you will have two control plane deployments and services running side-by-side:
{{< text bash >}}

> $ kubectl get pods -n istio-system -lapp=istiod

Reviewer 2: `-l app=istiod` looks more consistent?

Author: ok done

Reviewer 2: Thanks, I think one more left to remove.
https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/7791/files#diff-4731d0f9bd893d226b43d43608ad14d0R112

NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
istiod-5f4f9dd5fc-4xc8p          1/1     Running   0          10m
istiod-canary-55887f699c-t8bh8   1/1     Running   0          8m13s
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl -n istio-system get svc -lapp=istiod
NAME            TYPE        CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                                         AGE
istiod          ClusterIP   10.87.7.69   <none>        15010/TCP,15012/TCP,443/TCP,15014/TCP,853/TCP   10m
istiod-canary   ClusterIP   10.87.4.92   <none>        15010/TCP,15012/TCP,443/TCP,15014/TCP,853/TCP   7m55s
{{< /text >}}

> 

Reviewer: instructions are missing for how to do this with the standalone operator in the deploy directory - or generated via helm template.

Author: added instruction for helm template

Refer to the [`IstioOperator` API](/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#IstioOperatorSpec)
for the complete set of configuration settings.

## Canary Upgrade

> You can use operator to do canary upgrade of Istio control plane, similar to what istioctl does, refer to [upgrade guide]((/docs/setup/upgrade/#canary-upgrades))

Author: istioctl one is not `manual` actually, tried to update based on your suggestion

> For example, if you have already installed Istio following the previous step, check existence of in-cluster `IstioOperator` CR "example-istiocontrolplane":

Author: done

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get iop --all-namespaces
NAMESPACE      NAME                        REVISION   STATUS    AGE
istio-system   example-istiocontrolplane              HEALTHY   11m
{{< /text >}}

> Then run the following command with corresponding version of istioctl to install Istio of new revision based on the in-cluster `IstioOperator` CR:

Author: I would like to keep the `in-cluster` part

{{< text bash >}}

> $ istioctl operator init --revision canary

Reviewer 3: don't use canary, we're moving away from that. instead use an actual revision label like istio-1-6-7

Author: done

{{< /text >}}

{{< tip >}}

> You can alternatively deploy the operator of different revision using Helm by setting revision value:

Author: done

{{< text bash >}}
$ helm template manifests/charts/istio-operator/ \
  --set hub=docker.io/istio \
  --set tag={{< istio_full_version >}} \
  --set operatorNamespace=istio-operator \
  --set revision=canary \
  --set watchedNamespaces=istio-system | kubectl apply -f -
{{< /text >}}

Note that you need to [download the Istio release](/docs/setup/getting-started/#download)
to run the above command.
{{< /tip >}}

After running the command, you will have two control plane deployments and services running side-by-side:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get pods -n istio-system -l app=istiod
NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
istiod-5f4f9dd5fc-4xc8p          1/1     Running   0          10m

> istiod-canary-55887f699c-t8bh8   1/1     Running   0          8m13s

Reviewer 3: no canary

Author: done

{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl -n istio-system get svc -l app=istiod
NAME            TYPE        CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                                         AGE
istiod          ClusterIP   10.87.7.69   <none>        15010/TCP,15012/TCP,443/TCP,15014/TCP,853/TCP   10m
istiod-canary   ClusterIP   10.87.4.92   <none>        15010/TCP,15012/TCP,443/TCP,15014/TCP,853/TCP   7m55s
{{< /text >}}

## Uninstall

> Delete the Istio deployment:

Author: Because it is possible that multiple operators reconcile the same IstioOperator, so I want to emphasize that deleting one IstioOperator CR may result in deleting Istio of different revisions, I changed the description, plz double check?

Refer to the [`IstioOperator` API](/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#IstioOperatorSpec)
for the complete set of configuration settings.

## Canary Upgrade

> You can use the standalone operator to do canary upgrade of Istio control plane, the process is similar to the [canary upgrade with `istioctl`]((/docs/setup/upgrade/#canary-upgrades))

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can use the operator to do a canary upgrade of an Istio control plane, similar to [canary upgrade with `istioctl`]((/docs/setup/upgrade/#canary-upgrades)).
```

Author: done

> For example, if you used the operator to install Istio in the previous section, verify that the `example-istiocontrolplane` custom resource for the `IstioOperator` exists in your cluster::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, to upgrade the revision of Istio installed in the previous section, first verify that the `IstioOperator` CR named `example-istiocontrolplane` exists in your cluster:
```

Author: done

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get iop --all-namespaces
NAMESPACE      NAME                        REVISION   STATUS    AGE
istio-system   example-istiocontrolplane              HEALTHY   11m
{{< /text >}}

> Then run the following command to install the new revision of the Istio control plane based on the in-cluster `IstioOperator` Custom Resource:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Then run the following command to install the new revision of the Istio control plane based on the in-cluster `IstioOperator` CR:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl operator init --revision 1-7-0
{{< /text >}}

{{< tip >}}

> You can alternatively use Helm to deploy the operator of a different by setting revision value:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can alternatively use Helm to deploy another operator with a different revision setting:
```

  --set hub=docker.io/istio \
  --set tag={{< istio_full_version >}} \
  --set operatorNamespace=istio-operator \
  --set revision=canary \
  --set watchedNamespaces=istio-system | kubectl apply -f -
{{< /text >}}

Note that you need to [download the Istio release](/docs/setup/getting-started/#download)
to run the above command.
{{< /tip >}}

After running the command, you will have two control plane deployments and services running side-by-side:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get pods -n istio-system -l app=istiod
NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
istiod-5f4f9dd5fc-4xc8p          1/1     Running   0          10m
istiod-1-7-0-55887f699c-t8bh8    1/1     Running   0          8m13s
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl -n istio-system get svc -l app=istiod
NAME            TYPE        CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                                         AGE
istiod          ClusterIP   10.87.7.69   <none>        15010/TCP,15012/TCP,443/TCP,15014/TCP,853/TCP   10m
istiod-canary   ClusterIP   10.87.4.92   <none>        15010/TCP,15012/TCP,443/TCP,15014/TCP,853/TCP   7m55s
{{< /text >}}

## Uninstall

> Delete the Istio deployment. Note that if you have multiple operators with different revisions running, this might result in uninstalling Istio of different revisions. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you used the operator to perform a canary upgrade of the control plane, you can uninstall the old control plane and keep the new one by running the following command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl operator remove --revision <revision>
{{< /text >}}

Otherwise, delete the in-cluster `IstioOperator` CR, which will uninstall all revisions of Istio that may be running:
```

Author: done

Refer to the [`IstioOperator` API](/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/#IstioOperatorSpec)
for the complete set of configuration settings.

## Canary Upgrade

> You can use the operator to do a canary upgrade of an Istio control plane, the process is similar to the [canary upgrade with `istioctl`]((/docs/setup/upgrade/#canary-upgrades)).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can use the operator to do a canary upgrade of an Istio control plane, the process is similar to the [canary upgrade with `istioctl`](/docs/setup/upgrade/#canary-upgrades).
```

For example, to upgrade the revision of Istio installed in the previous section, first verify that the `IstioOperator` CR named `example-istiocontrolplane` exists in your cluster:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get iop --all-namespaces
NAMESPACE      NAME                        REVISION   STATUS    AGE
istio-system   example-istiocontrolplane              HEALTHY   11m
{{< /text >}}

Then run the following command to install the new revision of the Istio control plane based on the in-cluster `IstioOperator` CR:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl operator init --revision 1-7-0
{{< /text >}}

{{< tip >}}
You can alternatively use Helm to deploy another operator with a different revision setting:

{{< text bash >}}
$ helm template manifests/charts/istio-operator/ \
  --set hub=docker.io/istio \
  --set tag={{< istio_full_version >}} \
  --set operatorNamespace=istio-operator \

>   --set revision=canary \

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  --set revision=1.7.0 \
```

Author: done

  --set watchedNamespaces=istio-system | kubectl apply -f -
{{< /text >}}

Note that you need to [download the Istio release](/docs/setup/getting-started/#download)
to run the above command.
{{< /tip >}}

After running the command, you will have two control plane deployments and services running side-by-side:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get pods -n istio-system -l app=istiod
NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
istiod-5f4f9dd5fc-4xc8p          1/1     Running   0          10m
istiod-1-7-0-55887f699c-t8bh8    1/1     Running   0          8m13s
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl -n istio-system get svc -l app=istiod
NAME            TYPE        CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                                         AGE
istiod          ClusterIP   10.87.7.69   <none>        15010/TCP,15012/TCP,443/TCP,15014/TCP,853/TCP   10m

> istiod-canary   ClusterIP   10.87.4.92   <none>        15010/TCP,15012/TCP,443/TCP,15014/TCP,853/TCP   7m55s

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
istiod-1.7.0   ClusterIP   10.87.4.92   <none>        15010/TCP,15012/TCP,443/TCP,15014/TCP,853/TCP   7m55s
```

Author: done

$ kubectl delete istiooperators.install.istio.io -n istio-system example-istiocontrolplane
{{< /text >}}

> Note that if you have multiple operator running, this would result in removing all Istio control plane resources. Wait until Istio is uninstalled - this may take some time.

Author: Changed to "this would result in uninstalling different Istio Control Planes", or do you have better suggestions to exclude CR/CRDs?

$ kubectl delete ns istio-operator --grace-period=0 --force
{{< /text >}}

> If you just want to uninstall old Istio control plane but keep the new one during canary upgrade, do not delete the in-cluster CR, otherwise the new control plane resources would be uninstalled as well. Run this command instead:

Reviewer 5: Grammar.  "To uninstall a single control control but keep the new one, do not delete the in-cluster IstioOperator.  Run:"

Author: done

$ kubectl delete ns istio-operator --grace-period=0 --force
{{< /text >}}

> To uninstall a single Istio control plane but keep the new one during canary upgrade, do not delete the in-cluster `IstioOperator` CR, Run:

Author: changed to `keep the new one` based on your suggestion

> If you used the operator to perform a canary upgrade of the control plane, do not delete the in-cluster `IstioOperator` CR. Instead, you can uninstall the old control plane and keep the new one by running the following command:
> 
> {{< text bash >}}
> $ istioctl operator remove --revision <revision>
> {{< /text >}}
> 
> Note that deleting the operator before Istio is fully removed may result in leftover Istio resources.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Note that deleting the operator before Istio is fully removed may result in leftover Istio resources.
```

$ kubectl delete ns istio-operator --grace-period=0 --force
{{< /text >}}

> If you used the operator to perform a canary upgrade of the control plane, do not delete the in-cluster `IstioOperator` CR. Instead, you can uninstall the old control plane and keep the new one by running the following command:
> 
> {{< text bash >}}
> $ istioctl operator remove --revision <revision>
> {{< /text >}}
> 
> Note that deleting the operator before Istio is fully removed may result in leftover Istio resources.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Note that deleting the operator before Istio is fully removed may result in leftover Istio resources.
```
